First of March, chatting with Dick Hervey in his
study and we're going to talk about his student
days and now I'm going to stop the machine and check
and hope that it's working.
Dick, you grew up in Greenville. Why did you come to
Texas A&M? What were the factors that led you here
instead of somewhere else?
I came to A&M
because of the tradition of a number of Greenville
young men who came to A&M before me. And every one of
those young men that came here before me, I admired
very much. I had a football scholarship to go to
Texas Tech. I was planning to go to Texas Tech
because my older brother had gone to Texas Tech. I
had an uncle who owned a drug store in Lubbock. I
could work part-time and make a little money. But
when it came down to the, close to the end, I told my
mother that I was going to go to Texas Tech. And I
never regretted it today in my life because I had a
wonderful student experience. Did you come and
visit before you came? I never saw this campus
until I came in here with a fellow named Jim
Atkinson. Came in here in a yellow convertible and
I came with him very impressed by that bag. What
year was that? 1938, fall of 1938. I matriculated
with about Around 15 other young men from Great
Wilkins came here in the fall of 1938. Alright,
y'all came in a convertible. What did you bring in
the way of baggage? I brought one footlocker. One
green footlocker that had everything pretty well
that I owned and I had some space left in it. So it
wasn't very heavy. But I had been told what to bring
and so I had it all pretty well marked with my name in
it and so forth. I didn't have any uniform. I came
here and I had a little money that I could buy what I
needed. And the main thing that we wore The first
week that we were here were white coveralls in a
campaign. This campus was a sea of white
coveralls. The white coveralls with the buttons
all the way up down the front. In the back it said
Texas Aggies had been across the back. And so the
white coveralls were new to all of us. We had about
2,500 freshmen in our class. And the campaign hats
were new to us. And also, the number one thing on the
campus around the class buildings were lines.
Standing in line for everything. It was a line.
Everywhere you went, you knew there was going to be
a line. So you could just see these snake-like
lines meandering around the classroom
buildings, and all these freshmen trying to get
registered and so forth, standing in line with
white coveralls and campaign pants, all of them
just lying. Now, this fellow that you came down
with, he had already been at A&M. He was a senior. So
he knew where to take you to get... He knew where to
let me out. He was in the band hall, and my friend Jay
Atkinson, who was also a first cousin of this
fellow's, came with us. He was going to apply for
the band, and so I was assigned to Goodman Hall. I
was assigned to C Company Infantry. But when we
came, he drove right to Bazell Hall and unloaded us
all. I don't know where he parked his car. How did
you get designated to C Company? I had requested an
assignment to C Company because a lot of the
Greenville boys were in C Company. And that's
where I was. Did you have any idea what your major
might be? I took pre-med. I enrolled in a pre-med
course. until the end of my freshman
year. And I decided I didn't like the sciences. So I
took geology for another semester. At the end of
the second semester, I didn't like geology. So I
went to
Colonel Eichasch, who was assistant to the
president. And he was one of the great engineers.
And I advised him, I said, Colonel, I don't like, I
didn't like pre-med now. I've gone a semester in
geology and I don't know what it looks like. He
said, well, what are you going to do when you get
out? I said, I want to be in business somewhere. He
said, well, go over there and sign up for marketing
and finance. So I went to see Mr. Dean. And he took
all over my course records and said, well, why
don't you major in marketing and finance? You'll
be a generalist. You'll be able to do pretty well
anything in my business. So I did. And due to these
two changes in courses, I had to take a lot of extra
hours my last
what my last four semesters to graduate on
schedule, but I did without ever having to
go to summer school. Describe the campus
physically when you got here in 38. What major
buildings were where? Well, the academic
building was the central point.
The drill field was there in front of the MSC. But
the MSC wasn't there. The MSC was not there. Around
that block where the MSC was, was campus faculty
housing. The military wall, which extended from
the Dine Hall to Samisa Hall, was pretty well the
center of the campus with buildings on both the
east side military wall and the west side military
wall. And the administration building at the east
gate had just been finished not too long before I
came. The university had just been turned around
facing west and facing east when they built the So,
my world revolved around
the drill field, Goodman Hall, Goodell Hall, the
YMCA, which is right there by the most air wall. And
then the dorms in that area, which were growing per
year. And back over here was Hart Hall. had
been converted to a military building. It had been
a dormitory. And the combat's
office was that area, and the tank officers had
offices
in that building. I didn't have much business
there as a
freshman and sophomore when I became a junior. We
had quite a bit of business as students.
But the
west campus, the only thing across the Welborn
Road was two railroad depots and the creamery and
the horse barns. polo fields, they practiced polo
over there somewhere, and they had polo horses
over there, across there, where they had the
cavalry horses, and the artillery horses, all
across the railroad. That was about all that was
over there. What kind of impression did this
campus make on you? The campus made a tremendous
impression on me. All the dormitories were, that
dining hall was absolutely awesome. We sat up in
that main big room, no air conditioning or
anything, but they had ceiling fans on the
pedestals. And I don't know how many they had in
there, but they had a lot of them. And to see, march
in, we marched in and found a bunch of walls. And we
marked right in the main entrance, right at the end
of the military wall, our receipt company. We had
tables right by one of the major doors coming from
the kitchen. And to see all those students march
into that thing and go to their respective tables
and sit down with something unbelievable, it was
really impressive. And I had not been ever much of a
military person except for a scout. was the only
kind of regimented program I'd ever been in. And
going in the Corps and marching and learning to
carry a rifle and all that was new, very much new.
You are issued uniforms. We were issued uniforms.
And what about your haircut, that first haircut?
Well, that first haircut, we went to the YMCA. I
had, it didn't bother me much. You know, we, I
played football, I had burr haircuts all the time.
In the spring and the fall, the early fall of the
year before the workout, we had to go get our hair
burred. And so, we did the same thing. However, we
didn't have to get hair cut as short as they had. We
didn't have to get our hair just cut way off. Do you
have any idea what a haircut cost?
Somewhere around 35 to 50 cents.
Tell me about what it was like to be a freshman in the
dormitory. Was there hazing? What was the
routine? Well, it was just kind of awesome.
I had been warned about what to expect, and I had
been warned about the haste, the ESX haste.
It was a good experience.
First place, they said the South Boards made lots
of messages and stuff. sophomores would have a
meeting with the freshmen. They called them bleed
meetings, bleed sessions.
And there, they didn't have this Aggie, whatever
they called it, where you had to learn all the dorms
and everything. That wasn't much in the picture at
that time. But the primary thrust was, freshmen,
you've got to know every person in this company.
You've got to know their name. where their
hometown was. That's the first thing you've got to
learn. And also you've got to know where Casey's is
so you can run details. Go there and get a coat of
coat or something. I never had much trouble
remembering names. I was pretty good at
remembering names. When they said you've got to
learn everybody's name, I got to thinking. And
they'd test us. They'd get up and say, freshman Who
is this? Who is that? Where is he from? Where is he
from? And they'd try to excite you and make you,
upset you and everything. But we all had to go
through that process. And we had to, they said, you
gotta shake hands with everybody you see. You
gotta speak to everybody you see. You gotta shake
hands. If you don't know them, you gotta shake
hands and say, I'm Fish Hervey. And you gotta speak
to everybody. And
then when they felt like they had hazed us a little
bit, like beating butt-wise, they told us there
was going to be an Airbus and they did. What was the,
what kind of paddle or instrument did they use?
They had handmade paddles. They were about this
long. I've got one out in the country. They've got
one about, they're about this long with a handle
part. And then they were about that wide and about
the size of a 1x4 board. A little smaller than a 1x4
board. Now, some people say, oh, he beat me to death
with a baseball bat or something like that. But I
never saw a baseball bat. They were paddles. And
hell, I was so little and pretty muscular. And
hell, they'd say, get a pooch. I'd get a pooch. And
they'd beat me all day. It wouldn't hurt me too bad
after I caught on to how to handle them.
Let's go back to dormitory life. Was your freshman
roommate a special person in your life? My
freshman year, I had two roommates. One was a
fellow named Ross Meredith. He came from Dallas.
He was kind of a hell-raising character, full of
life, full of him and bigger, and not very
studious. And my other roommate was Whit Stockley
who came from Marion, Arkansas. His people were
cotton farmers in the Mississippi Valley and he
was rather quiet and had a deep south voice but was
not a very good student and the three of us got along
well, enjoyed each other. But three in a small room
in Vibram Hall just was not conducive to very good
study. We had three bunk beds, three, one, two,
three, stacked like that. I think Wood slept on the
top bunk. Ross slept on the bottom because he was a
big fella. and I slept on the middle bunk. How did
y'all determine who got what bunk originally? I
don't remember. I don't remember how we decided
that. We had each had a study table. Yeah, describe
that room. Yeah, we had three study tables. We all
had to go buy us a lamp. That was one of the first
things we had to do was buy a lamp. It was a round
lamp, a desk lamp, kind of like that. And we had a
book rack that was more or less homemade by
somebody around here. And they sold it. I think
they sold it for about $2 or $3. You put this book
rack back here on the back of your study table and
that's where you kept your books and so forth. And
another thing you had to have was wooden shower
shoes. because we used, we walked barefooted a
lot. None of us had a house that never did use them.
So we walked in the halls all the time down to the
showers and we had to keep from getting athlete's
foot.
So we all had a big bottle of Benzoyn or something to
put on our feet if we got a touch of athlete's foot by
treating ourselves. Now the restroom and shower
facilities were down the hallway. Yes. In a gang
fashion. In a gang fashion, that's right. Just
like a barracks, army barracks. Describe a
typical freshman day, Monday through Saturday.
What time did y'all get up and what time did you do?
Well, we got up about six. We had to clean our own
room. And then about seven, a little before, we had
to go into our rooms where we were room-marking.
See, we all had to clean up somebody else's room,
too. So I cleaned up Darcy McCurry and Jack
Henderson's room. Bill Amickson and I did. Bill
was my next-door neighbor. And the seniors had two
room-markings. And we'd go into their room until
about 7 in the morning. We'd wake them up. And then
get up and we'd start to clean up. And then, boy, it
must have been earlier than that because we had to
fall in and march to Subesa Hall. And we had to be out
of there at the first class at 8 o'clock. So I guess
all that got to move that up a little bit or move back
a little bit. Anyway, once we got rid of doing our
little chores like making unfurling rooms and our
upperclassmen's rooms, we just had one room. At a
certain time in the morning, we'd fall in out on the
military walk. And then we could hear the commands
up and down the military walk when we were ready to
start marching. We'd start marching in. And we
marched into the dining hall and ate at a regular
place, the same tables every day. But after we
finished eating breakfast, we were free to just
walk back out as we wanted to. What was a typical
breakfast menu? Well, a typical menu was
scrambled eggs, bacon or sausage, and Dunwaden,
we called it bread, rolls, or toast. coffee, milk,
we didn't drink much coffee in those days. They
served milk in those little bottles, old
fashioned bottles, and like that, came from the
dairy, and we each would, we could drink as many of
those as we wanted in the dining hall. Not supposed
to take them out, but we just took them out all the
time for our upperclassmen. We said, bring me a
bottle of milk, and we'd do that. When we finished
breakfast, we'd go to the post office, walk to the
post
office. We all had mailboxes in the post
office there, where it is now. And we'd check our
own boxes. Sometimes we'd check other people's
boxes. Then we'd go home and get our books and stock
device.
We'd be in class normally most of the morning,
Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays, you know, just
whatever your schedule was. But we'd get back to
the dorm and fall in again and march to the mess
hall, dining hall. After the lunch, we'd walk back
and go back to our dorms and get our books and head
off for our afternoon classes. We had drills on
Thursday, which was ROTC day. We had
a drill every Thursday. And that was from 1 o'clock
in the afternoon until 5. And
we had classes on Saturday
morning. Nothing
in the afternoon Saturday. We had noon through the
third. that at night, about whatever time it was,
we'd fall in again for our evening meal, and when we
took you over, we came back to the YMCA, the front
steps of the YMCA, where they had the jail
practice. And we stayed there until the jail
practice was over, which by then was dark, it was
dark. And then we went home, back to the dorms, and
then hit the rooms and studied. And then the lights
out? The lights were out about 10.30.
Did you have any late afternoon free time except on
Saturdays and Sundays? Depending on your
schedule. What would you do during those
unscheduled hours? What I did, usually if I had
say, if I had as much as two hours, I'd go
to the library. We'd paddle around, we'd spend a
lot of time over at the athletic department, we'd
spend a lot of time at the gym. We'd go to the gym and
do something. We'd wrestle or we'd box or we'd play
handball.
I spent almost all of my time when I wasn't involved
or told to be doing something in the library. Not
doing research or anything, but just studying and
all that. Did anybody ever go to sleep in the
library? All the time. Oh. All the time. Did
anybody bother? No. Oh. No. You see, they had a rule
that we could not take a nap.
We were going at such pace that we would just become
exhausted. And I would go to the, many times I would
go to the library and just lay down on the big table
and just go to sleep. I never was. Now I had trouble a
few times going to sleep in class because I just was
exhausted. I remember old Major Orr woke me up one
time and asked me to answer a question. And I didn't
know what the question was, but I said, Major,
would you please repeat the question? Something
about good hygiene. I don't know. Anyway, once he
repeated the question, I could answer it, but I was
asleep. Describe the mealtime routine for lunch
or supper. for a fish? Well, a fish had to do all the
waiting on the quality of the classic. They had to
see that they could be served with the main meal of
the day, like fried chicken. See that they had the
mashed potatoes. See that they had the gravy on it.
See that they haven't done the water and sugar and
all of that. Once they all got served, then us fish
could eat. We had to wait until all the other
classes, sophomore, junior, senior. Did you all
then sometimes remain in the dining hall at the
table when they finished? Yes. Then you could eat.
Then we could eat more than we could have
otherwise. But they would keep bringing us food.
We never were without food. Sometime we would
sharpen desserts. because they did serve us a lot
of desserts, and sometimes the upper classes
would take part of the pies out of the dining hall.
What were your favorite dishes? Well, I liked the
fried chicken, and they served a lot of it until I
finally burned out on it because they didn't serve
so much of it. But all that food they served was
good. Was there anything that you remember you
didn't like? I don't remember that. They served,
mostly I remember the bread was a sort of a roll. It
had plenty of butter. It had iced tea. It had milk.
And breakfast they served eggs, pancakes, and
bacon, sausage, and coffee. And I think orange
juice. And
it was every meal was seated. Every meal was
seated. Let's try to record as much as we can of the
chow hall slang. Oh, okay. I was just thinking
about some of that. Let me think. Well, rabbit was
salad. That was the letters. Salt and pepper was
sand dame.
Salt and pepper sand dame. Ketchup was what? Bud,
buddy. Pass the buddy. Any
dessert was kush. Milk. Milk was what? Cow. Cow.
Cow. Yeah, and bull, bull, bull neck, bull meat,
bull neck, about the size of a bull neck, was the
meat. And, uh. Tea? Tea was what? Was that horse?
Could have been. There was something. Yeah, yeah.
Let's see, you mentioned bread was. Bread was
gunwale. Gunwale. And sugar was what?
Let's
see. Beans.
Beans. That was... Oh, yeah, there's something
for beans like blowout. Corn.
Corn.
Beans. Oh, it had to be something like Do
you remember any, when you were finishing, do you
remember any dining hall tricks or pranks? They
were playing pranks all the time in the dining
hall. and that usually was an assigned chore that
somebody had to do. For example, sometimes they'd
designate some freshman to act like a moody bird
and fly over the play like he was flying and he'd go
over and get right in front of somebody and just
flap his wings and do something crazy like that.
And they were just practical jokes at that time.
Did y'all ever, did they ever pull any prank off on a
sophomore or a junior?
Yeah, yeah. If he looked away, did anybody ever put
any? Oh yeah, oh yeah. Yeah, they were putting this
Let's
see,
with your outfit,
did your outfit have a nickname? Yes, C-Company.
C-Company, okay, so it worked. After the 12 new
dormitories were built, they moved me out of C
Company and moved me into K Company. I was in dorm 3,
and I lived in dorm 3 for then 3 years, which was in
what we called the new area. Now the new area opened
in? In the beginning of our sophomore year. 39? 39.
And how did those dormitories seem to y'all
compared to what you had first year? They seemed
good? They seemed good. In the first place, they
were all on one level. They still had the four
flights up and down, but they had two sections of
bathrooms on each floor, one on one end of the
building, one on the other. One wide, about seven
feet wide hall, right down the middle.
a stair at one end of the building, another stair at
the other end of the building. And they had one
trouble with them.